Revive documentation for experimental Searchable Snapshots APIs (#71927)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/searchable-snapshots/apis/shard-stats.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="enterprise"]
[[searchable-snapshots-api-stats]]
=== Searchable snapshot statistics API
++++
<titleabbrev>Shard statistics</titleabbrev>
++++

> experimental[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
experimental::[]
```

> Retrieve statistics about searchable snapshots shards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Retrieves statistics about searchable snapshots.
```

[[searchable-snapshots-api-stats-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`GET /_searchable_snapshots/stats`

`GET /<target>/_searchable_snapshots/stats`

[[searchable-snapshots-api-stats-prereqs]]
==== {api-prereq-title}

> If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the
> `manage` cluster privilege and the `manage` index privilege
> for any included indices to use this API.
> For more information, see <<security-privileges>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the {es} {security-features} are enabled, you must have the `manage`
<<privileges-list-cluster,cluster privilege>> to use this API. You must also
have the `manage` <<privileges-list-indices,index privileges>> for the target
data stream or index.
```

[[searchable-snapshots-api-stats-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

[[searchable-snapshots-api-stats-path-params]]
==== {api-path-parms-title}

`<target>`::
(Optional, string)

> A comma-separated list of data streams and indices for which the
> statistics must be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Comma-separated list of data streams and indices to retrieve statistics for. To
retrieve statistics for all data streams and indices, omit this parameter.
```

Same comment about wildcards and index aliases above.

[[searchable-snapshots-api-stats-example]]
==== {api-examples-title}
////
[source,console]
-----------------------------------
PUT /docs
{
  "settings" : {
    "index.number_of_shards" : 1,
    "index.number_of_replicas" : 0
  }
}

PUT /_snapshot/my_repository/my_snapshot?wait_for_completion=true
{
  "include_global_state": false,
  "indices": "docs"
}

DELETE /docs

POST /_snapshot/my_repository/my_snapshot/_mount?wait_for_completion=true
{
  "index": "docs"
}
-----------------------------------
// TEST[setup:setup-repository]
////

Retrieves the statistics of the index `docs`:

[source,console]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /docs/_searchable_snapshots/stats

> --------------------------------------------------

Reviewer: Same comment about the index name.
